#summary How to use Gizmo5 with Google Voice

=Gizmo5 Shutting Down=

*According to [http://www.google.com/gizmo5/ Google], they are shutting down the Gizmo5 service as of April 3, 2011. Take the time now to migrate your inbound SIP converters to IPKall or sipgate.*
 
After a torrid build-up of interest in Gizmo5 as the only provider with SIP access to Google Voice, Gizmo5 introduced some integration with Google Voice. For a time, Gizmo5 allowed users to "test the waters" by placing short (but free) outbound calls in conjunction with Google Voice. That feature has since been removed, and the primary value of Gizmo5's role in free calling is that it remains the only service that does not require transcoding from a standard phone line to VoIP.

Gizmo5 does not limit the length of calls that arrive inbound from the Google Voice servers, however. This means that all calls arriving into Gizmo5 accounts from Google Voice are unlimited in length. Recall that when Google Voice users initiate outbound calls by entering or selecting phone numbers at the web site, Google Voice always proceeds by calling the user first at a number they specify, only to connect the user to the desired phone number when they answer the call. From the very beginning, Google Voice users with Gizmo5 accounts have been able to make calls of unlimited length over SIP merely by initiating the calls at the Google Voice website.<p>
 
Since SIP is a computer-to-computer communication system, this means that users with devices capable of SIP communication can now enjoy free unlimited calling by authenticating their SIP client against their SIP account at Gizmo5 and initiating outbound calls via the Google Voice website and indicating to Google Voice that they can be reached through their Gizmo5 phone line.<p>

This also means that devices that have not historically been thought of as telephones can now serve their users in that role. One such example are Nokia tablets running Maemo. After configuring the native SIP client to log into Gizmo5 as a SIP client, install DialCentral and configure your Gizmo5 number as your callback number. Dial a phone number with DialCentral by entering a phone number or selecting a number from your Google Voice contacts. Your SIP client will ring indicating an incoming call. Answer the call and you will be connected to the number you entered or selected in DialCentral.

This example app also works with the N900 phone. The setup is significant because it does not rely upon SIP Sorcery which, like Gizmo5, is temporarily closed to new signups.