#summary Integrating Gizmo5 with SIP Sorcery

=SIP Sorcery closed to new signups=

*Please be advised that SIP Sorcery, the glue in this process that enables you to dial outbound calls directly via your SIP client, has run into resource issues and is closed to new signups at this time. Gizmo5 is still usable with a SIP client and web browser, even without a SIP Sorcery account. See "Current Options" below for details.*

*The original content is retained below in case you happen to have a SIP Sorcery account and never configured it, or if the service is restored soon.*

==Current options==

If you have a Gizmo5 account, but are unable to sign up for a SIP Sorcery account, you are still free to connect your SIP client directly to your Gizmo5 account and place your calls via the Google Voice website. If you choose to use this setup, be careful to not attempt to make calls directly from your SIP client. Gizmo5 charges for outbound calls, even to destinations in the US. In order to place calls for free through Google Voice, follow these steps:

  # Configure your SIP client to log into Gizmo5 using your SIP credentials.
  # Login to Google Voice, click Settings, Phones, and add your Gizmo5 747 number as a new managed phone. Google Voice will display a two digit number on your screen. Click Connect. Google Voice will call your Gizmo5 number. Answer with your SIP client and enter the code displayed. Once you successfully add the new line, make sure it is checked on your Google Voice managed phone list.
  # You are now set to receive calls for free through SIP on your mobile device. Before you can make free calls from a configured device, visit the Google Voice website, go into the Settings page, click "My Mobile Number" and select your sipgate number.
  # Go back to the Inbox and enter the number you wish to call or select it from your Google Voice contact list, and then click Call. Your SIP client will ring with an incoming call. Answer the call and you will be connected to the number you entered or selected on the GV web page without using any talk minutes.

==Original content== 

Among the many SIP phone line providers on the Internet, SIP Sorcery presents an interesting end user experience. SIP Sorcery was developed to offer a flexible way to control the flow of phone calls while in their digital form. What is unique about SIP Sorcery's approach is that they expose a complete programmable environment, allowing skilled users to develop robust and complex schemes for routing calls between networks. When GrandCentral reopened its doors as Google Voice and Google Voice restricted its SIP-based communications to Gizmo5, SIP Sorcery seized a unique opportunity.<p>

See, Gizmo5 still offers to forward all inbound calls to another destination free of charge, so long as the connection is via SIP. This is of no consequence to SIP Sorcery because they only deal in SIP links. SIP Sorcery unilaterally updated their system to include support for Google Voice. They developed and made available a script function that uses Google Voice to establish phone calls which are then presented via SIP to SIP Sorcery and on to their connected users. SIP Sorcery uses the phone numbers entered via a SIP client to kick off the script that establishes a call at Google Voice.<p>
 
What does all this mean? <b>It means that users who connect to SIP Sorcery via SIP are able to dial phone numbers directly in their SIP clients or on their analog phones attached to a SIP-compatible phone adapter. SIP Sorcery then uses Google Voice to place unlimited free calls to any US phone number entered by the user.</b><p>
 
It also means, by extension, <b>that users who connect their SIP clients directly to Gizmo5 or other SIP gateway providers and don't want to pay for their value added services are not utilizing the service in the most efficient and cost effective way.</b> 

*Please be advised that SIP Sorcery, the glue in this process that enables you to dial outbound calls directly via your SIP client, has run into resource issues and is closed to new signups at this time.*