#summary Integrating SIPGate with SIP Sorcery
 
SIP Sorcery is not only able to process and route SIP calls, but is also able to serve as a SIP client to SIP providers. This capability enables SIP Sorcery users to use any other telecom provider that offers SIP access to their users' phone lines. Sipgate.com is one such provider. In order to enable 24x7 free calling for Google Voice and sipgate users using just a SIP client, follow these simple steps to use the dialplan in the next section.



  # Sign up for a free Residential Sipgate ONE account at sipgate.com. Go into your settings page and take note of both your regular phone number (usually in area code 415) as well as your SIP credentials.
  # Sign up for a free account at SIPSorcery.com. You will need to install Microsoft Silverlight in your browser to perform this step and complete the rest of this process.
  # On the SIP Providers page, add a new provider named "sipgate" and enter your SIP username and password provided by sipgate. Enter sipgate.com as the server. Check the "Register" checkbox and make sure that the registered contact shows "sip:" followed your SIP Sorcery name and "@sipsorcery.com". Click Add when you have finished. After a few seconds, sipgate should automatically appear in the "SIP Provider Registrations" list at the bottom of the screen. If it does not, double check the SIP credentials and server settings against those shown on your sipgate account settings page.
  # Configure your SIP client, SIP-compatible softphone or SIP-compatible ATA to login to your sipsorcery account. Check the "SIP Accounts" page of your SIP Sorcery account and make sure an entry appears in the "SIP Bindings" list at the bottom of the page.
  # Use a phone to call your sipgate number and make sure the phone attached to your SIP Sorcery account rings. Answer the call and make sure you can hear sound in both directions.
  # Login to Google Voice, click Settings, Phones, and add your sipgate phone number as a new managed phone. Google Voice will display a two digit number on your screen. Click Connect and Google Voice will call your sipgate number and ask you to enter the code displayed. Once you successfully add the new line, make sure it is checked on your Google Voice phone list.

Note: You are now ready to receive inbound calls to your Google Voice number for free. You may also enter phone numbers on the Google Voice website and select your sipgate number as the phone you wish to use to make free outbound calls. There is one last step required to enable 24x7 free unlimited outbound dialing from your SIP-compatible softphone or standard telephone attached to your SIP-compatible ATA.<p>

As the final step, choose one of the SIP Sorcery dial plans below in section 10 or 11, copy it, go to the Dial Plans page in SIP Sorcery, click on default, and paste in the dial plan you selected, overwriting the short default script already there. Customize the portions of the dialplan highlighted in blue below. The script will not function correctly and you will not be able to make free outbound calls until you customize the highlighted entries.

If you've made it here, you should be all set. If you followed all the steps properly, you should be able to start your SIP client or pick up your ATA-connected phone and dial any number in the US for free. If you are unfamiliar with other SIP clients and SIP-compatible devices available to you, check out Section 13.<p>
 
NOTE: If you are unable to follow these steps and just can't seem to get outbound dialing to work, please see section 14 of this document for  more detailed instructions, including screenshots of the setup process.  