#summary How to check your voicemail using only a phone
 
= Introduction =
 
Many users are accessing their Google Voice line using only an ATA. Unfortunately, Google Voice doesn't allow you to call your own Google Voice number. This means that you can't check voice mail unless you use another Google Voice account to call your "main" GV number. This dialplan does just that. 

= Details =

This dialplan is a variation of Simple Dial Plan. It supports checking your
GV voice mail from ATA and includes enhanced caller id via CNAM.

So, if you have 2nd GV account, you need to uncomment and edit 3 lines:

{{{
GV_NUMBER = '12125551212'          # My GV number
VM_USER   = 'username@gmail.com'   # my 2nd GV e-mail address (user@gmail.com)
VM_PASS   = 'GV password'          # my GV password 
}}}

First line is your "main" GV number in 11-digit format. The other two lines
are your credentials for 2nd GV account. If you dial GV_NUMBER, the dialplan
will use these credentials.

Note that both GV accounts should share callback numbers (Settings / Phones).

You can use speed dial to program VM number (GV_NUMBER) to, say, 1 and dial 1
instead of the number.

The CNAM lookup table and WP_key are documented in readme for "Complex Dial Plan with CNAM lookup".

= Download =

You may download the dialplan from the Contrib section or by clicking <a href="http://code.google.com/p/google-voice-sipsorcery-dialplans/source/browse/trunk/SIP+Sorcery+Dial+Plans/#SIP%20Sorcery%20Dial%20Plans/Contrib/Simple%20Dial%20Plan%20with%20CNAM%20and%20VM">here</a>.