#summary Brief History of the Gizmo5 Project

After a brief period of allowing all users direct access to their Google Voice phone lines via SIP, Google restricted the purely digital access through an established Internet phone line provider, Gizmo5. Now Gizmo5 had its own digital phone line service offering, complete with their own domestic and international calling rates. But by accepting digital phone calls from Google Voice and allowing Google Voice users to receive phone calls from Google Voice completely free of charge, their revenue model was threatened. Remember, when you enter or select a phone number to call on the Google Voice website, Google Voice calls you first and when you answer, connects you to the other party.<p>
 
So if Gizmo5 was granting free access to end users to free digital-only phone lines but also had the only all-digital path to Google Voice, they were destined to receive a stampede of new Google Voice users who had no interest in using their chargeable services. Furthermore, since Gizmo5 offers free forwarding of inbound calls to other destinations over SIP, this meant that anyone worldwide could suddenly sign up for free services from Gizmo5 while waiting for a free phone line from Google Voice. Google worked very hard to limit the earliest eligible beta testers to those located in the US, but Gizmo5 breaks that requirement and will forward your phone calls anywhere in the world over SIP.<p>
 
After a several months of beta testing, Google recognized that not only does Gizmo5 play a key role in linking some of Google's users with a very popular product, the popularity of the product paired up with Gizmo5's generosity was quickly eating away at their bottom line. Instead watching Gizmo5 collapse into itself, taking a successful, established business with it as well as thousands of Google users using Gizmo5's services for free, Google bought Gizmo5 and is currently in the process of rebranding their product line and apparently preparing to better integrate the service with Google's offerings.<p>